[RTL8722CSM/RTL8722DM] TensorFlow Lite - Person Detection
============================================================

**Materials**

-  Ameba D [RTL8722 CSM/DM] x 1

-  Arducam Mini 2MP Plus OV2640 SPI Camera Module x 1

-  LED x 3

**Example**

**Procedure**


Connect the camera and LEDs to the RTL8722 board following the diagram.

.. image:: ../media/PersonDetection/image1.png
   :width: 777
   :height: 467
   :scale: 100 %

Download the Ameba customized version of TensorFlow Lite for
Microcontrollers library at
https://github.com/ambiot/ambd_arduino/tree/master/Arduino_zip_libraries.
Follow the instructions at https://www.arduino.cc/en/guide/libraries to
install it. Ensure that the patch files found at
https://github.com/ambiot/ambd_arduino/tree/master/Ameba_misc/ are also
installed.

You will also need to install the Ameba_ArduCAM library, found together
with the TensorFlow Lite library.

In the Arduino IDE library manager, install the JPEGDecoder library.
This example has been tested with version 1.8.0 of the JPEGDecoder
library.

Once the library has installed, you will need to configure it to disable
some optional components that are not compatible with the RTL8722DM.
Open the following file:

Arduino/libraries/JPEGDecoder/src/User_Config.h

Make sure that both #define LOAD_SD_LIBRARY and #define
LOAD_SDFAT_LIBRARY are commented out, as shown in this excerpt from the
file:

//#define LOAD_SD_LIBRARY // Default SD Card library

//#define LOAD_SDFAT_LIBRARY // Use SdFat library instead, so SD Card
SPI can be bit bashed

Open the example, "Files" -> "Examples" -> “TensorFlowLite_Ameba” ->
“person_detection”.

.. image:: ../media/PersonDetection/image2.png
   :width: 556
   :height: 830
   :scale: 100 %

Upload the code and press the reset button on Ameba once the upload is
finished.

Once it is running, you should see the blue LED flashing once every few
seconds, indicating that it has finished processing an image. The red
LED will light up if it determines that there is no person in the
previous image captured, and the green LED will light up if it
determines that there is a person.

The inference results are also output to the Arduino serial monitor,
which appear as follows:

.. image:: ../media/PersonDetection/image3.png
   :width: 639
   :height: 477
   :scale: 100 %

**Code Reference**


More information on TensorFlow Lite for Microcontrollers can be found
at: https://www.tensorflow.org/lite/microcontrollers
